Curiouser and curiouser! cried Alice she was so much surprised, that for the moment she quite forgot how to speak good English now Im opening out like the largest telescope that ever was! Good-bye, feet! for when she looked down at her feet, they seemed to be almost out of sight, they were getting so far off. Oh, my poor little feet, I wonder who will put on your shoes and stockings for you now, dears? Im sure I shant be able! I shall be a great deal too far off to trouble myself about you: you must manage the best way you can-but I must be kind to them, thought Alice, or perhaps they wont walk the way I want to go! Let me see: Ill give them a new pair of boots every Christmas.
And she went on planning to herself how she would manage it. They must go by the carrier, she thought and how funny itll seem, sending presents to ones own feet! And how odd the directions will look!
Alices Right Foot, Esq.
Hearthrug,
near The Fender,
with Alices love.
Oh dear, what nonsense Im talking!
Just then her head struck against the roof of the hall: in fact she was now more than nine feet high, and she at once took up the little golden key and hurried off to the garden door.
Poor Alice! It was as much as she could do, lying down on one side, to look through into the garden with one eye but to get through was more hopeless than ever: she sat down and began to cry again.
You ought to be ashamed of yourself, said Alice, a great girl like you, she might well say this, to go on crying in this way! Stop this moment, I tell you! But she went on all the same, shedding gallons of tears, until there was a large pool all round her, about four inches deep and reaching half down the hall.
After a time she heard a little pattering of feet in the distance, and she hastily dried her eyes to see what was coming. It was the White Rabbit returning, splendidly dressed, with a pair of white kid gloves in one hand and a large fan in the other: he came trotting along in a great hurry, muttering to himself as he came, Oh! the Duchess, the Duchess! Oh! wont she be savage if Ive kept her waiting! Alice felt so desperate that she was ready to ask help of any one so, when the Rabbit came near her, she began, in a low, timid voice, If you please, sir- The Rabbit started violently, dropped the white kid gloves and the fan, and skurried away into the darkness as hard as he could go.
Alice took up the fan and gloves, and, as the hall was very hot, she kept fanning herself all the time she went on talking: Dear, dear! How queer everything is to-day! And yesterday things went on just as usual. I wonder if Ive been changed in the night? Let me think: was I the same when I got up this morning? I almost think I can remember feeling a little different. But if Im not the same, the next question is, Who in the world am I? Ah, thats the great puzzle! And she began thinking over all the children she knew that were of the same age as herself, to see if she could have been changed for any of them.
Im sure Im not Ada, she said, for her hair goes in such long ringlets, and mine doesnt go in ringlets at all and Im sure I cant be Mabel, for I know all sorts of things, and she, oh! she knows such a very little! Besides, shes she, and Im I, and-oh dear, how puzzling it all is! Ill try if I know all the things I used to know. Let me see: four times five is twelve, and four times six is thirteen, and four times seven is-oh dear! I shall never get to twenty at that rate! However, the Multiplication Table doesnt signify: lets try Geography. London is the capital of Paris, and Paris is the capital of Rome, and Rome-no, thats all wrong, Im certain! I must have been changed for Mabel! Ill try and say " How doth the little -" and she crossed her hands on her lap as if she were saying lessons, and began to repeat it, but her voice sounded hoarse and strange, and the words did not come the same as they used to do:-
How doth the little crocodile
Improve his shining tail,
And pour the waters of the Nile
On every golden scale!
How cheerfully he seems to grin,
How neatly spread his claws,
And welcome little fishes in
With gently smiling jaws!
Im sure those are not the right words, said poor Alice, and her eyes filled with tears again as she went on, I must be Mabel after all, and I shall have to go and live in that poky little house, and have next to no toys to play with, and oh! ever so many lessons to learn! No, Ive made up my mind about it if Im Mabel, Ill stay down here! Itll be no use their putting their heads down and saying "Come up again, dear!" I shall only look up and say "Who am I then? Tell me that first, and then, if I like being that person, Ill come up: if not, Ill stay down here till Im somebody else"-but, oh dear! cried Alice, with a sudden burst of tears, I do wish they would put their heads down! I am so very tired of being all alone here!
As she said this she looked down at her hands, and was surprised to see that she had put on one of the Rabbits little white kid gloves while she was talking. How can I have done that? she thought. I must be growing small again. She got up and went to the table to measure herself by it, and found that, as nearly as she could guess, she was now about two feet high, and was going on shrinking rapidly: she soon found out that the cause of this was the fan she was holding, and she dropped it hastily, just in time to avoid shrinking away altogether.
That was a narrow escape! said Alice, a good deal frightened at the sudden change, but very glad to find herself still in existence and now for the garden! and she ran with all speed back to the little door: but, alas! the little door was shut again, and the little golden key was lying on the glass table as before, and things are worse than ever, thought the poor child, for I never was so small as this before, never! And I declare its too bad, that it is!
As she said these words her foot slipped, and in another moment, splash! she was up to her chin in salt water. Her first idea was that she had somehow fallen into the sea, and in that case I can go back by railway, she said to herself. Alice had been to the seaside once in her life, and had come to the general conclusion, that wherever you go to on the English coast you find a number of bathing machines in the sea, some children digging in the sand with wooden spades, then a row of lodging houses, and behind them a railway station. However, she soon made out that she was in the pool of tears which she had wept when she was nine feet high.
I wish I hadnt cried so much! said Alice, as she swam about, trying to find her way out. I shall be punished for it now, I suppose, by being drowned in my own tears! That will be a queer thing, to be sure! However, everything is queer to-day.
Just then she heard something splashing about in the pool a little way off, and she swam nearer to make out what it was: at first she thought it must be a walrus or hippopotamus, but then she remembered how small she was now, and she soon made out that it was only a mouse that had slipped in like herself.
Would it be of any use, now, thought Alice, to speak to this mouse? Everything is so out-of-the-way down here, that I should think very likely it can talk: at any rate, theres no harm in trying. So she began: O Mouse, do you know the way out of this pool? I am very tired of swimming about here, O Mouse! Alice thought this must be the right way of speaking to a mouse: she had never done such a thing before, but she remembered having seen in her brothers Latin Grammar, A mouse-of a mouse-to a mouse-a mouse-O mouse! The Mouse looked at her rather inquisitively, and seemed to her to wink with one of its little eyes, but it said nothing.
Perhaps it doesnt understand English, thought Alice I daresay its a French mouse, come over with William the Conqueror. For, with all her knowledge of history, Alice had no very clear notion how long ago anything had happened. So she began again: Ou est ma chatte? which was the first sentence in her French lesson-book. The Mouse gave a sudden leap out of the water, and seemed to quiver all over with fright. Oh, I beg your pardon! cried Alice hastily, afraid that she had hurt the poor animals feelings. I quite forgot you didnt like cats.
Not like cats! cried the Mouse, in a shrill, passionate voice. Would you like cats if you were me?
Well, perhaps not, said Alice in a soothing tone: dont be angry about it. And yet I wish I could show you our cat Dinah: I think youd take a fancy to cats if you could only see her. She is such a dear quiet thing, Alice went on, half to herself, as she swam lazily about in the pool, and she sits purring so nicely by the fire, licking her paws and washing her face-and she is such a nice soft thing to nurse-and shes such a capital one for catching mice-oh, I beg your pardon! cried Alice again, for this time the Mouse was bristling all over, and she felt certain it must be really offended. We wont talk about her any more if youd rather not.
We indeed! cried the Mouse, who was trembling down to the end of his tail. As if I would talk on such a subject! Our family always hated cats: nasty, low, vulgar things! Dont let me hear the name again!
I wont indeed! said Alice, in a great hurry to change the subject of conversation. Are you-are you fond-of-of dogs? The Mouse did not answer, so Alice went on eagerly: There is such a nice little dog near our house I should like to show you! A little bright-eyed terrier, you know, with oh, such long curly brown hair! And itll fetch things when you throw them, and itll sit up and beg for its dinner, and all sorts of things-I cant remember half of them-and it belongs to a farmer, you know, and he says its so useful, its worth a hundred pounds! He says it kills all the rats and-oh dear! cried Alice in a sorrowful tone, Im afraid Ive offended it again! For the Mouse was swimming away from her as hard as it could go, and making quite a commotion in the pool as it went.
So she called softly after it, Mouse dear! Do come back again, and we wont talk about cats or dogs either, if you dont like them! When the Mouse heard this, it turned round and swam slowly back to her: its face was quite pale with passion, Alice thought, and it said in a low trembling voice, Let us get to the shore, and then Ill tell you my history, and youll understand why it is I hate cats and dogs.
It was high time to go, for the pool was getting quite crowded with the birds and animals that had fallen into it: there were a Duck and a Dodo, a Lory and an Eaglet, and several other curious creatures. Alice led the way, and the whole party swam to the shore.
CHAPTER III. A Caucus-Race and a Long Tale
They were indeed a queer-looking party that assembled on the bank-the birds with draggled feathers, the animals with their fur clinging close to them, and all dripping wet, cross, and uncomfortable.
The first question of course was, how to get dry again: they had a consultation about this, and after a few minutes it seemed quite natural to Alice to find herself talking familiarly with them, as if she had known them all her life. Indeed, she had quite a long argument with the Lory, who at last turned sulky, and would only say, I am older than you, and must know better and this Alice would not allow without knowing how old it was, and, as the Lory positively refused to tell its age, there was no more to be said.
At last the Mouse, who seemed to be a person of authority among them, called out, Sit down, all of you, and listen to me! Ill soon make you dry enough! They all sat down at once, in a large ring, with the Mouse in the middle. Alice kept her eyes anxiously fixed on it, for she felt sure she would catch a bad cold if she did not get dry very soon.
Ahem! said the Mouse with an important air, are you all ready? This is the driest thing I know. Silence all round, if you please! "William the Conqueror, whose cause was favoured by the pope, was soon submitted to by the English, who wanted leaders, and had been of late much accustomed to usurpation and conquest. Edwin and Morcar, the earls of Mercia and Northumbria-"
Ugh! said the Lory, with a shiver.
I beg your pardon! said the Mouse, frowning, but very politely: Did you speak?
Not I! said the Lory hastily.

I thought you did, said the Mouse. -I proceed. "Edwin and Morcar, the earls of Mercia and Northumbria, declared for him: and even Stigand, the patriotic archbishop of Canterbury, found it advisable-"

Found what? said the Duck.

Found it, the Mouse replied rather crossly: of course you know what "it" means.

I know what "it" means well enough, when I find a thing, said the Duck: its generally a frog or a worm. The question is, what did the archbishop find?

The Mouse did not notice this question, but hurriedly went on, "-found it advisable to go with Edgar Atheling to meet William and offer him the crown. Williams conduct at first was moderate. But the insolence of his Normans-" How are you getting on now, my dear? it continued, turning to Alice as it spoke.

As wet as ever, said Alice in a melancholy tone: it doesnt seem to dry me at all.

In that case, said the Dodo solemnly, rising to its feet, I move that the meeting adjourn, for the immediate adoption of more energetic remedies-

Speak English! said the Eaglet. I dont know the meaning of half those long words, and, whats more, I dont believe you do either! And the Eaglet bent down its head to hide a smile: some of the other birds tittered audibly.

What I was going to say, said the Dodo in an offended tone, was, that the best thing to get us dry would be a Caucus-race.

What is a Caucus-race? said Alice not that she wanted much to know, but the Dodo had paused as if it thought that somebody ought to speak, and no one else seemed inclined to say anything.

Why, said the Dodo, the best way to explain it is to do it. And, as you might like to try the thing yourself, some winter day, I will tell you how the Dodo managed it.

First it marked out a race-course, in a sort of circle, the exact shape doesnt matter, it said, and then all the party were placed along the course, here and there. There was no One, two, three, and away, but they began running when they liked, and left off when they liked, so that it was not easy to know when the race was over. However, when they had been running half an hour or so, and were quite dry again, the Dodo suddenly called out The race is over! and they all crowded round it, panting, and asking, But who has won?

This question the Dodo could not answer without a great deal of thought, and it sat for a long time with one finger pressed upon its forehead the position in which you usually see Shakespeare, in the pictures of him, while the rest waited in silence. At last the Dodo said,  Everybody has won, and all must have prizes.

But who is to give the prizes? quite a chorus of voices asked.

Why, she, of course, said the Dodo, pointing to Alice with one finger and the whole party at once crowded round her, calling out in a confused way, Prizes! Prizes!

Alice had no idea what to do, and in despair she put her hand in her pocket, and pulled out a box of comfits, luckily the salt water had not got into it, and handed them round as prizes. There was exactly one a-piece all round.

But she must have a prize herself, you know, said the Mouse.

Of course, the Dodo replied very gravely. What else have you got in your pocket? he went on, turning to Alice.

Only a thimble, said Alice sadly.

Hand it over here, said the Dodo.

Then they all crowded round her once more, while the Dodo solemnly presented the thimble, saying We beg your acceptance of this elegant thimble and, when it had finished this short speech, they all cheered.

Alice thought the whole thing very absurd, but they all looked so grave that she did not dare to laugh and, as she could not think of anything to say, she simply bowed, and took the thimble, looking as solemn as she could.

The next thing was to eat the comfits: this caused some noise and confusion, as the large birds complained that they could not taste theirs, and the small ones choked and had to be patted on the back. However, it was over at last, and they sat down again in a ring, and begged the Mouse to tell them something more.

You promised to tell me your history, you know, said Alice, and why it is you hate-C and D, she added in a whisper, half afraid that it would be offended again.

Mine is a long and a sad tale! said the Mouse, turning to Alice, and sighing.

It is a long tail, certainly, said Alice, looking down with wonder at the Mouses tail but why do you call it sad? And she kept on puzzling about it while the Mouse was speaking, so that her idea of the tale was something like this:-

Fury said to a mouse, That he met in the house, "Let us both go to law: I will prosecute you.-Come, Ill take no denial We must have a trial: For really this morning Ive nothing to do." Said the mouse to the cur, "Such a trial, dear Sir, With no jury or judge, would be wasting our breath." "Ill be judge, Ill be jury," Said cunning old Fury: "Ill try the whole cause, and condemn you to death."

You are not attending! said the Mouse to Alice severely. What are you thinking of?

I beg your pardon, said Alice very humbly: you had got to the fifth bend, I think?

I had not! cried the Mouse, sharply and very angrily.

A knot! said Alice, always ready to make herself useful, and looking anxiously about her. Oh, do let me help to undo it!

I shall do nothing of the sort, said the Mouse, getting up and walking away. You insult me by talking such nonsense!

I didnt mean it! pleaded poor Alice. But youre so easily offended, you know!

The Mouse only growled in reply.

Please come back and finish your story! Alice called after it and the others all joined in chorus, Yes, please do! but the Mouse only shook its head impatiently, and walked a little quicker.

What a pity it wouldnt stay! sighed the Lory, as soon as it was quite out of sight and an old Crab took the opportunity of saying to her daughter Ah, my dear! Let this be a lesson to you never to lose your temper! Hold your tongue, Ma! said the young Crab, a little snappishly. Youre enough to try the patience of an oyster!

I wish I had our Dinah here, I know I do! said Alice aloud, addressing nobody in particular. Shed soon fetch it back!

And who is Dinah, if I might venture to ask the question? said the Lory.

Alice replied eagerly, for she was always ready to talk about her pet: Dinahs our cat. And shes such a capital one for catching mice you cant think! And oh, I wish you could see her after the birds! Why, shell eat a little bird as soon as look at it!

This speech caused a remarkable sensation among the party. Some of the birds hurried off at once: one old Magpie began wrapping itself up very carefully, remarking, I really must be getting home the night-air doesnt suit my throat! and a Canary called out in a trembling voice to its children, Come away, my dears! Its high time you were all in bed! On various pretexts they all moved off, and Alice was soon left alone.

I wish I hadnt mentioned Dinah! she said to herself in a melancholy tone. Nobody seems to like her, down here, and Im sure shes the best cat in the world! Oh, my dear Dinah! I wonder if I shall ever see you any more! And here poor Alice began to cry again, for she felt very lonely and low-spirited. In a little while, however, she again heard a little pattering of footsteps in the distance, and she looked up eagerly, half hoping that the Mouse had changed his mind, and was coming back to finish his story.






CHAPTER IV. The Rabbit Sends in a Little Bill
It was the White Rabbit, trotting slowly back again, and looking anxiously about as it went, as if it had lost something and she heard it muttering to itself The Duchess! The Duchess! Oh my dear paws! Oh my fur and whiskers! Shell get me executed, as sure as ferrets are ferrets! Where can I have dropped them, I wonder? Alice guessed in a moment that it was looking for the fan and the pair of white kid gloves, and she very good-naturedly began hunting about for them, but they were nowhere to be seen-everything seemed to have changed since her swim in the pool, and the great hall, with the glass table and the little door, had vanished completely.

Very soon the Rabbit noticed Alice, as she went hunting about, and called out to her in an angry tone, Why, Mary Ann, what are you doing out here? Run home this moment, and fetch me a pair of gloves and a fan! Quick, now! And Alice was so much frightened that she ran off at once in the direction it pointed to, without trying to explain the mistake it had made.

He took me for his housemaid, she said to herself as she ran. How surprised hell be when he finds out who I am! But Id better take him his fan and gloves-that is, if I can find them. As she said this, she came upon a neat little house, on the door of which was a bright brass plate with the name W. RABBIT engraved upon it. She went in without knocking, and hurried upstairs, in great fear lest she should meet the real Mary Ann, and be turned out of the house before she had found the fan and gloves.

How queer it seems, Alice said to herself, to be going messages for a rabbit! I suppose Dinahll be sending me on messages next! And she began fancying the sort of thing that would happen: "Miss Alice! Come here directly, and get ready for your walk!" "Coming in a minute, nurse! But Ive got to see that the mouse doesnt get out." Only I dont think, Alice went on, that theyd let Dinah stop in the house if it began ordering people about like that!

By this time she had found her way into a tidy little room with a table in the window, and on it as she had hoped a fan and two or three pairs of tiny white kid gloves: she took up the fan and a pair of the gloves, and was just going to leave the room, when her eye fell upon a little bottle that stood near the looking-glass. There was no label this time with the words DRINK ME, but nevertheless she uncorked it and put it to her lips. I know something interesting is sure to happen, she said to herself, whenever I eat or drink anything so Ill just see what this bottle does. I do hope itll make me grow large again, for really Im quite tired of being such a tiny little thing!

It did so indeed, and much sooner than she had expected: before she had drunk half the bottle, she found her head pressing against the ceiling, and had to stoop to save her neck from being broken. She hastily put down the bottle, saying to herself Thats quite enough-I hope I shant grow any more-As it is, I cant get out at the door-I do wish I hadnt drunk quite so much!

Alas! it was too late to wish that! She went on growing, and growing, and very soon had to kneel down on the floor: in another minute there was not even room for this, and she tried the effect of lying down with one elbow against the door, and the other arm curled round her head. Still she went on growing, and, as a last resource, she put one arm out of the window, and one foot up the chimney, and said to herself Now I can do no more, whatever happens. What will become of me?

Luckily for Alice, the little magic bottle had now had its full effect, and she grew no larger: still it was very uncomfortable, and, as there seemed to be no sort of chance of her ever getting out of the room again, no wonder she felt unhappy.

It was much pleasanter at home, thought poor Alice, when one wasnt always growing larger and smaller, and being ordered about by mice and rabbits. I almost wish I hadnt gone down that rabbit-hole-and yet-and yet-its rather curious, you know, this sort of life! I do wonder what can have happened to me! When I used to read fairy-tales, I fancied that kind of thing never happened, and now here I am in the middle of one! There ought to be a book written about me, that there ought! And when I grow up, Ill write one-but Im grown up now, she added in a sorrowful tone at least theres no room to grow up any more here.

But then, thought Alice, shall I never get any older than I am now? Thatll be a comfort, one way-never to be an old woman-but then-always to have lessons to learn! Oh, I shouldnt like that!

Oh, you foolish Alice! she answered herself. How can you learn lessons in here? Why, theres hardly room for you, and no room at all for any lesson-books!

And so she went on, taking first one side and then the other, and making quite a conversation of it altogether but after a few minutes she heard a voice outside, and stopped to listen.

Mary Ann! Mary Ann! said the voice. Fetch me my gloves this moment! Then came a little pattering of feet on the stairs. Alice knew it was the Rabbit coming to look for her, and she trembled till she shook the house, quite forgetting that she was now about a thousand times as large as the Rabbit, and had no reason to be afraid of it.

Presently the Rabbit came up to the door, and tried to open it but, as the door opened inwards, and Alices elbow was pressed hard against it, that attempt proved a failure. Alice heard it say to itself Then Ill go round and get in at the window.

 That you wont thought Alice, and, after waiting till she fancied she heard the Rabbit just under the window, she suddenly spread out her hand, and made a snatch in the air. She did not get hold of anything, but she heard a little shriek and a fall, and a crash of broken glass, from which she concluded that it was just possible it had fallen into a cucumber-frame, or something of the sort.

Next came an angry voice-the Rabbits-Pat! Pat! Where are you? And then a voice she had never heard before, Sure then Im here! Digging for apples, yer honour!

Digging for apples, indeed! said the Rabbit angrily. Here! Come and help me out of this! Sounds of more broken glass.

Now tell me, Pat, whats that in the window?

Sure, its an arm, yer honour! He pronounced it arrum.

An arm, you goose! Who ever saw one that size? Why, it fills the whole window!

Sure, it does, yer honour: but its an arm for all that.

Well, its got no business there, at any rate: go and take it away!

There was a long silence after this, and Alice could only hear whispers now and then such as, Sure, I dont like it, yer honour, at all, at all! Do as I tell you, you coward! and at last she spread out her hand again, and made another snatch in the air. This time there were two little shrieks, and more sounds of broken glass. What a number of cucumber-frames there must be! thought Alice. I wonder what theyll do next! As for pulling me out of the window, I only wish they could! Im sure I dont want to stay in here any longer!

She waited for some time without hearing anything more: at last came a rumbling of little cartwheels, and the sound of a good many voices all talking together: she made out the words: Wheres the other ladder?-Why, I hadnt to bring but one Bills got the other-Bill! fetch it here, lad!-Here, put em up at this corner-No, tie em together first-they dont reach half high enough yet-Oh! theyll do well enough dont be particular-Here, Bill! catch hold of this rope-Will the roof bear?-Mind that loose slate-Oh, its coming down! Heads below! a loud crash-Now, who did that?-It was Bill, I fancy-Whos to go down the chimney?-Nay, I shant! You do it!- That I wont, then!-Bills to go down-Here, Bill! the master says youre to go down the chimney!

Oh! So Bills got to come down the chimney, has he? said Alice to herself. Shy, they seem to put everything upon Bill! I wouldnt be in Bills place for a good deal: this fireplace is narrow, to be sure but I think I can kick a little!

She drew her foot as far down the chimney as she could, and waited till she heard a little animal she couldnt guess of what sort it was scratching and scrambling about in the chimney close above her: then, saying to herself This is Bill, she gave one sharp kick, and waited to see what would happen next.

The first thing she heard was a general chorus of There goes Bill! then the Rabbits voice along-Catch him, you by the hedge! then silence, and then another confusion of voices-Hold up his head-Brandy now-Dont choke him-How was it, old fellow? What happened to you? Tell us all about it!

Last came a little feeble, squeaking voice, Thats Bill, thought Alice, Well, I hardly know-No more, thank ye Im better now-but Im a deal too flustered to tell you-all I know is, something comes at me like a Jack-in-the-box, and up I goes like a sky-rocket!

So you did, old fellow! said the others.

We must burn the house down! said the Rabbits voice and Alice called out as loud as she could, If you do. Ill set Dinah at you!

There was a dead silence instantly, and Alice thought to herself, I wonder what they will do next! If they had any sense, theyd take the roof off. After a minute or two, they began moving about again, and Alice heard the Rabbit say, A barrowful will do, to begin with.

A barrowful of what? thought Alice but she had not long to doubt, for the next moment a shower of little pebbles came rattling in at the window, and some of them hit her in the face. Ill put a stop to this, she said to herself, and shouted out, Youd better not do that again! which produced another dead silence.

Alice noticed with some surprise that the pebbles were all turning into little cakes as they lay on the floor, and a bright idea came into her head. If I eat one of these cakes, she thought, its sure to make some change in my size and as it cant possibly make me larger, it must make me smaller, I suppose.

So she swallowed one of the cakes, and was delighted to find that she began shrinking directly. As soon as she was small enough to get through the door, she ran out of the house, and found quite a crowd of little animals and birds waiting outside. The poor little Lizard, Bill, was in the middle, being held up by two guinea-pigs, who were giving it something out of a bottle. They all made a rush at Alice the moment she appeared but she ran off as hard as she could, and soon found herself safe in a thick wood.

The first thing Ive got to do, said Alice to herself, as she wandered about in the wood, is to grow to my right size again and the second thing is to find my way into that lovely garden. I think that will be the best plan.

It sounded an excellent plan, no doubt, and very neatly and simply arranged the only difficulty was, that she had not the smallest idea how to set about it and while she was peering about anxiously among the trees, a little sharp bark just over her head made her look up in a great hurry.

An enormous puppy was looking down at her with large round eyes, and feebly stretching out one paw, trying to touch her. Poor little thing! said Alice, in a coaxing tone, and she tried hard to whistle to it but she was terribly frightened all the time at the thought that it might be hungry, in which case it would be very likely to eat her up in spite of all her coaxing.

Hardly knowing what she did, she picked up a little bit of stick, and held it out to the puppy whereupon the puppy jumped into the air off all its feet at once, with a yelp of delight, and rushed at the stick, and made believe to worry it then Alice dodged behind a great thistle, to keep herself from being run over and the moment she appeared on the other side, the puppy made another rush at the stick, and tumbled head over heels in its hurry to get hold of it then Alice, thinking it was very like having a game of play with a cart-horse, and expecting every moment to be trampled under its feet, ran round the thistle again then the puppy began a series of short charges at the stick, running a very little way forwards each time and a long way back, and barking hoarsely all the while, till at last it sat down a good way off, panting, with its tongue hanging out of its mouth, and its great eyes half shut.

This seemed to Alice a good opportunity for making her escape so she set off at once, and ran till she was quite tired and out of breath, and till the puppys bark sounded quite faint in the distance.

And yet what a dear little puppy it was! said Alice, as she leant against a buttercup to rest herself, and fanned herself with one of the leaves: I should have liked teaching it tricks very much, if-if Id only been the right size to do it! Oh dear! Id nearly forgotten that Ive got to grow up again! Let me see-how is it to be managed? I suppose I ought to eat or drink something or other but the great question is, what?

The great question certainly was, what? Alice looked all round her at the flowers and the blades of grass, but she did not see anything that looked like the right thing to eat or drink under the circumstances. There was a large mushroom growing near her, about the same height as herself and when she had looked under it, and on both sides of it, and behind it, it occurred to her that she might as well look and see what was on the top of it.

She stretched herself up on tiptoe, and peeped over the edge of the mushroom, and her eyes immediately met those of a large caterpillar, that was sitting on the top with its arms folded, quietly smoking a long hookah, and taking not the smallest notice of her or of anything else.






CHAPTER V. Advice from a Caterpillar
The Caterpillar and Alice looked at each other for some time in silence: at last the Caterpillar took the hookah out of its mouth, and addressed her in a languid, sleepy voice.

Who are you? said the Caterpillar.

This was not an encouraging opening for a conversation. Alice replied, rather shyly, I-I hardly know, sir, just at present-at least I know who I was when I got up this morning, but I think I must have been changed several times since then.

What do you mean by that? said the Caterpillar sternly. Explain yourself!

I cant explain myself, Im afraid, sir said Alice, because Im not myself, you see.

I dont see, said the Caterpillar.

Im afraid I cant put it more clearly, Alice replied very politely, for I cant understand it myself to begin with and being so many different sizes in a day is very confusing.

It isnt, said the Caterpillar.

Well, perhaps you havent found it so yet, said Alice but when you have to turn into a chrysalis-you will some day, you know-and then after that into a butterfly, I should think youll feel it a little queer, wont you?

Not a bit, said the Caterpillar.

Well, perhaps your feelings may be different, said Alice all I know is, it would feel very queer to me.

You! said the Caterpillar contemptuously. Who are you?

Which brought them back again to the beginning of the conversation. Alice felt a little irritated at the Caterpillars making such very short remarks, and she drew herself up and said, very gravely, I think, you ought to tell me who you are, first.

Why? said the Caterpillar.

Here was another puzzling question and as Alice could not think of any good reason, and as the Caterpillar seemed to be in a very unpleasant state of mind, she turned away.

Come back! the Caterpillar called after her. Ive something important to say!

This sounded promising, certainly: Alice turned and came back again.

Keep your temper, said the Caterpillar.

Is that all? said Alice, swallowing down her anger as well as she could.

No, said the Caterpillar.

Alice thought she might as well wait, as she had nothing else to do, and perhaps after all it might tell her something worth hearing. For some minutes it puffed away without speaking, but at last it unfolded its arms, took the hookah out of its mouth again, and said, So you think youre changed, do you?

Im afraid I am, sir, said Alice I cant remember things as I used-and I dont keep the same size for ten minutes together!

Cant remember what things? said the Caterpillar.

Well, Ive tried to say "How doth the little busy bee," but it all came different! Alice replied in a very melancholy voice.

Repeat, " You are old, Father William," said the Caterpillar.

Alice folded her hands, and began:-

You are old, Father William, the young man said, And your hair has become very white And yet you incessantly stand on your head- Do you think, at your age, it is right? In my youth, Father William replied to his son, I feared it might injure the brain But, now that Im perfectly sure I have none, Why, I do it again and again. You are old, said the youth, as I mentioned before, And have grown most uncommonly fat Yet you turned a back-somersault in at the door- Pray, what is the reason of that? In my youth, said the sage, as he shook his grey locks, I kept all my limbs very supple By the use of this ointment-one shilling the box- Allow me to sell you a couple? You are old, said the youth, and your jaws are too weak For anything tougher than suet Yet you finished the goose, with the bones and the beak- Pray how did you manage to do it? In my youth, said his father, I took to the law, And argued each case with my wife And the muscular strength, which it gave to my jaw, Has lasted the rest of my life. You are old, said the youth, one would hardly suppose That your eye was as steady as ever Yet you balanced an eel on the end of your nose- What made you so awfully clever? I have answered three questions, and that is enough, Said his father dont give yourself airs! Do you think I can listen all day to such stuff? Be off, or Ill kick you down stairs!

That is not said right, said the Caterpillar.

Not quite right, Im afraid, said Alice, timidly some of the words have got altered.

It is wrong from beginning to end, said the Caterpillar decidedly, and there was silence for some minutes.

The Caterpillar was the first to speak.

What size do you want to be? it asked.

Oh, Im not particular as to size, Alice hastily replied only one doesnt like changing so often, you know.

I dont know, said the Caterpillar.

Alice said nothing: she had never been so much contradicted in her life before, and she felt that she was losing her temper.

Are you content now? said the Caterpillar.

Well, I should like to be a little larger, sir, if you wouldnt mind, said Alice: three inches is such a wretched height to be.

It is a very good height indeed! said the Caterpillar angrily, rearing itself upright as it spoke it was exactly three inches high.

But Im not used to it! pleaded poor Alice in a piteous tone. And she thought of herself, I wish the creatures wouldnt be so easily offended!

Youll get used to it in time, said the Caterpillar and it put the hookah into its mouth and began smoking again.

This time Alice waited patiently until it chose to speak again. In a minute or two the Caterpillar took the hookah out of its mouth and yawned once or twice, and shook itself. Then it got down off the mushroom, and crawled away in the grass, merely remarking as it went, One side will make you grow taller, and the other side will make you grow shorter.

One side of what? The other side of what? thought Alice to herself.

Of the mushroom, said the Caterpillar, just as if she had asked it aloud and in another moment it was out of sight.

Alice remained looking thoughtfully at the mushroom for a minute, trying to make out which were the two sides of it and as it was perfectly round, she found this a very difficult question. However, at last she stretched her arms round it as far as they would go, and broke off a bit of the edge with each hand.

And now which is which? she said to herself, and nibbled a little of the right-hand bit to try the effect: the next moment she felt a violent blow underneath her chin: it had struck her foot!

She was a good deal frightened by this very sudden change, but she felt that there was no time to be lost, as she was shrinking rapidly so she set to work at once to eat some of the other bit. Her chin was pressed so closely against her foot, that there was hardly room to open her mouth but she did it at last, and managed to swallow a morsel of the lefthand bit.

Come, my heads free at last! said Alice in a tone of delight, which changed into alarm in another moment, when she found that her shoulders were nowhere to be found: all she could see, when she looked down, was an immense length of neck, which seemed to rise like a stalk out of a sea of green leaves that lay far below her.

What can all that green stuff be? said Alice. And where have my shoulders got to? And oh, my poor hands, how is it I cant see you? She was moving them about as she spoke, but no result seemed to follow, except a little shaking among the distant green leaves.

As there seemed to be no chance of getting her hands up to her head, she tried to get her head down to them, and was delighted to find that her neck would bend about easily in any direction, like a serpent. She had just succeeded in curving it down into a graceful zigzag, and was going to dive in among the leaves, which she found to be nothing but the tops of the trees under which she had been wandering, when a sharp hiss made her draw back in a hurry: a large pigeon had flown into her face, and was beating her violently with its wings.

Serpent! screamed the Pigeon.

Im not a serpent! said Alice indignantly. Let me alone!

Serpent, I say again! repeated the Pigeon, but in a more subdued tone, and added with a kind of sob, Ive tried every way, and nothing seems to suit them!

I havent the least idea what youre talking about, said Alice.

Ive tried the roots of trees, and Ive tried banks, and Ive tried hedges, the Pigeon went on, without attending to her but those serpents! Theres no pleasing them!

Alice was more and more puzzled, but she thought there was no use in saying anything more till the Pigeon had finished.

As if it wasnt trouble enough hatching the eggs, said the Pigeon but I must be on the look-out for serpents night and day! Why, I havent had a wink of sleep these three weeks!

Im very sorry youve been annoyed, said Alice, who was beginning to see its meaning.

And just as Id taken the highest tree in the wood, continued the Pigeon, raising its voice to a shriek, and just as I was thinking I should be free of them at last, they must needs come wriggling down from the sky! Ugh, Serpent!

But Im not a serpent, I tell you! said Alice. Im a-Im a-

Well! What are you? said the Pigeon. I can see youre trying to invent something!

I-Im a little girl, said Alice, rather doubtfully, as she remembered the number of changes she had gone through that day.

A likely story indeed! said the Pigeon in a tone of the deepest contempt. Ive seen a good many little girls in my time, but never one with such a neck as that! No, no! Youre a serpent and theres no use denying it. I suppose youll be telling me next that you never tasted an egg!

I have tasted eggs, certainly, said Alice, who was a very truthful child but little girls eat eggs quite as much as serpents do, you know.

I dont believe it, said the Pigeon but if they do, why then theyre a kind of serpent, thats all I can say.

This was such a new idea to Alice, that she was quite silent for a minute or two, which gave the Pigeon the opportunity of adding, Youre looking for eggs, I know that well enough and what does it matter to me whether youre a little girl or a serpent?

It matters a good deal to me, said Alice hastily but Im not looking for eggs, as it happens and if I was, I shouldnt want yours : I dont like them raw.

Well, be off, then! said the Pigeon in a sulky tone, as it settled down again into its nest. Alice crouched down among the trees as well as she could, for her neck kept getting entangled among the branches, and every now and then she had to stop and untwist it. After a while she remembered that she still held the pieces of mushroom in her hands, and she set to work very carefully, nibbling first at one and then at the other, and growing sometimes taller and sometimes shorter, until she had succeeded in bringing herself down to her usual height.

It was so long since she had been anything near the right size, that it felt quite strange at first but she got used to it in a few minutes, and began talking to herself, as usual. Come, theres half my plan done now! How puzzling all these changes are! Im never sure what Im going to be, from one minute to another! However, Ive got back to my right size: the next thing is, to get into that beautiful garden-how is that to be done, I wonder? As she said this, she came suddenly upon an open place, with a little house in it about four feet high. Whoever lives there, thought Alice, itll never do to come upon them this size: why, I should frighten them out of their wits! So she began nibbling at the righthand bit again, and did not venture to go near the house till she had brought herself down to nine inches high.






CHAPTER VI. Pig and Pepper
For a minute or two she stood looking at the house, and wondering what to do next, when suddenly a footman in livery came running out of the wood-she considered him to be a footman because he was in livery: otherwise, judging by his face only, she would have called him a fish-and rapped loudly at the door with his knuckles. It was opened by another footman in livery, with a round face, and large eyes like a frog and both footmen, Alice noticed, had powdered hair that curled all over their heads. She felt very curious to know what it was all about, and crept a little way out of the wood to listen.

The Fish-Footman began by producing from under his arm a great letter, nearly as large as himself, and this he handed over to the other, saying, in a solemn tone, For the Duchess. An invitation from the Queen to play croquet. The Frog-Footman repeated, in the same solemn tone, only changing the order of the words a little, From the Queen. An invitation for the Duchess to play croquet.

Then they both bowed low, and their curls got entangled together.

Alice laughed so much at this, that she had to run back into the wood for fear of their hearing her and when she next peeped out the Fish-Footman was gone, and the other was sitting on the ground near the door, staring stupidly up into the sky.

Alice went timidly up to the door, and knocked.

Theres no sort of use in knocking, said the Footman, and that for two reasons. First, because Im on the same side of the door as you are secondly, because theyre making such a noise inside, no one could possibly hear you. And certainly there was a most extraordinary noise going on within-a constant howling and sneezing, and every now and then a great crash, as if a dish or kettle had been broken to pieces.

Please, then, said Alice, how am I to get in?

There might be some sense in your knocking, the Footman went on without attending to her, if we had the door between us. For instance, if you were inside, you might knock, and I could let you out, you know. He was looking up into the sky all the time he was speaking, and this Alice thought decidedly uncivil. But perhaps he cant help it, she said to herself his eyes are so very nearly at the top of his head. But at any rate he might answer questions.-How am I to get in? she repeated, aloud.

I shall sit here, the Footman remarked, till tomorrow-

At this moment the door of the house opened, and a large plate came skimming out, straight at the Footmans head: it just grazed his nose, and broke to pieces against one of the trees behind him.

-or next day, maybe, the Footman continued in the same tone, exactly as if nothing had happened.

How am I to get in? asked Alice again, in a louder tone.

 Are you to get in at all? said the Footman. Thats the first question, you know.

It was, no doubt: only Alice did not like to be told so. Its really dreadful, she muttered to herself, the way all the creatures argue. Its enough to drive one crazy!

The Footman seemed to think this a good opportunity for repeating his remark, with variations. I shall sit here, he said, on and off, for days and days.

But what am I to do? said Alice.

Anything you like, said the Footman, and began whistling.

Oh, theres no use in talking to him, said Alice desperately: hes perfectly idiotic! And she opened the door and went in.

The door led right into a large kitchen, which was full of smoke from one end to the other: the Duchess was sitting on a three-legged stool in the middle, nursing a baby the cook was leaning over the fire, stirring a large cauldron which seemed to be full of soup.

Theres certainly too much pepper in that soup! Alice said to herself, as well as she could for sneezing.

There was certainly too much of it in the air. Even the Duchess sneezed occasionally and as for the baby, it was sneezing and howling alternately without a moments pause. The only things in the kitchen that did not sneeze, were the cook, and a large cat which was sitting on the hearth and grinning from ear to ear.

Please would you tell me, said Alice, a little timidly, for she was not quite sure whether it was good manners for her to speak first, why your cat grins like that?

Its a Cheshire cat, said the Duchess, and thats why. Pig!

She said the last word with such sudden violence that Alice quite jumped but she saw in another moment that it was addressed to the baby, and not to her, so she took courage, and went on again:-

I didnt know that Cheshire cats always grinned in fact, I didnt know that cats could grin.

They all can, said the Duchess and most of em do.

I dont know of any that do, Alice said very politely, feeling quite pleased to have got into a conversation.

You dont know much, said the Duchess and thats a fact.

Alice did not at all like the tone of this remark, and thought it would be as well to introduce some other subject of conversation. While she was trying to fix on one, the cook took the cauldron of soup off the fire, and at once set to work throwing everything within her reach at the Duchess and the baby-the fire-irons came first then followed a shower of saucepans, plates, and dishes. The Duchess took no notice of them even when they hit her and the baby was howling so much already, that it was quite impossible to say whether the blows hurt it or not.

Oh, please mind what youre doing! cried Alice, jumping up and down in an agony of terror. Oh, there goes his precious nose as an unusually large saucepan flew close by it, and very nearly carried it off.

If everybody minded their own business, the Duchess said in a hoarse growl, the world would go round a deal faster than it does.

Which would not be an advantage, said Alice, who felt very glad to get an opportunity of showing off a little of her knowledge. Just think of what work it would make with the day and night! You see the earth takes twenty-four hours to turn round on its axis-

Talking of axes, said the Duchess, chop off her head!

Alice glanced rather anxiously at the cook, to see if she meant to take the hint but the cook was busily stirring the soup, and seemed not to be listening, so she went on again: Twenty-four hours, I think  or is it twelve? I-

Oh, dont bother me, said the Duchess I never could abide figures! And with that she began nursing her child again, singing a sort of lullaby to it as she did so, and giving it a violent shake at the end of every line:

Speak roughly to your little boy,
And beat him when he sneezes:
He only does it to annoy,
Because he knows it teases.
CHORUS.
In which the cook and the baby joined:-
Wow! wow! wow!

While the Duchess sang the second verse of the song, she kept tossing the baby violently up and down, and the poor little thing howled so, that Alice could hardly hear the words:-

I speak severely to my boy,
I beat him when he sneezes
For he can thoroughly enjoy
The pepper when he pleases!
CHORUS.
Wow! wow! wow!

Here! you may nurse it a bit, if you like! the Duchess said to Alice, flinging the baby at her as she spoke. I must go and get ready to play croquet with the Queen, and she hurried out of the room. The cook threw a frying-pan after her as she went out, but it just missed her.

Alice caught the baby with some difficulty, as it was a queer-shaped little creature, and held out its arms and legs in all directions, just like a star-fish, thought Alice. The poor little thing was snorting like a steam-engine when she caught it, and kept doubling itself up and straightening itself out again, so that altogether, for the first minute or two, it was as much as she could do to hold it.

As soon as she had made out the proper way of nursing it, which was to twist it up into a sort of knot, and then keep tight hold of its right ear and left foot, so as to prevent its undoing itself, she carried it out into the open air. If I dont take this child away with me, thought Alice, theyre sure to kill it in a day or two: wouldnt it be murder to leave it behind? She said the last words out loud, and the little thing grunted in reply it had left off sneezing by this time. Dont grunt, said Alice thats not at all a proper way of expressing yourself.

The baby grunted again, and Alice looked very anxiously into its face to see what was the matter with it. There could be no doubt that it had a very turn-up nose, much more like a snout than a real nose also its eyes were getting extremely small for a baby: altogether Alice did not like the look of the thing at all. But perhaps it was only sobbing, she thought, and looked into its eyes again, to see if there were any tears.

No, there were no tears. If youre going to turn into a pig, my dear, said Alice, seriously, Ill have nothing more to do with you. Mind now! The poor little thing sobbed again or grunted, it was impossible to say which, and they went on for some while in silence.

Alice was just beginning to think to herself, Now, what am I to do with this creature when I get it home? when it grunted again, so violently, that she looked down into its face in some alarm. This time there could be no mistake about it: it was neither more nor less than a pig, and she felt that it would be quite absurd for her to carry it further.

So she set the little creature down, and felt quite relieved to see it trot away quietly into the wood. If it had grown up, she said to herself, it would have made a dreadfully ugly child: but it makes rather a handsome pig, I think. And she began thinking over other children she knew, who might do very well as pigs, and was just saying to herself, if one only knew the right way to change them- when she was a little startled by seeing the Cheshire Cat sitting on a bough of a tree a few yards off.

The Cat only grinned when it saw Alice. It looked good-natured, she thought: still it had very long claws and a great many teeth, so she felt that it ought to be treated with respect.

Cheshire Puss, she began, rather timidly, as she did not at all know whether it would like the name: however, it only grinned a little wider. Come, its pleased so far, thought Alice, and she went on. Would you tell me, please, which way I ought to go from here?

That depends a good deal on where you want to get to, said the Cat.

I dont much care where- said Alice.

Then it doesnt matter which way you go, said the Cat.

-so long as I get somewhere, Alice added as an explanation.

Oh, youre sure to do that, said the Cat, if you only walk long enough.

Alice felt that this could not be denied, so she tried another question. What sort of people live about here?

In that direction, the Cat said, waving its right paw round, lives a Hatter: and in that direction, waving the other paw, lives a March Hare. Visit either you like: theyre both mad.

But I dont want to go among mad people, Alice remarked.

Oh, you cant help that, said the Cat: were all mad here. Im mad. Youre mad.

How do you know Im mad? said Alice.

You must be, said the Cat, or you wouldnt have come here.

Alice didnt think that proved it at all however, she went on And how do you know that youre mad?

To begin with, said the Cat, a dogs not mad. You grant that?

I suppose so, said Alice.

Well, then, the Cat went on, you see, a dog growls when its angry, and wags its tail when its pleased. Now I growl when Im pleased, and wag my tail when Im angry. Therefore Im mad.

 I call it purring, not growling, said Alice.

Call it what you like, said the Cat. Do you play croquet with the Queen to-day?

I should like it very much, said Alice, but I havent been invited yet.

Youll see me there, said the Cat, and vanished.

Alice was not much surprised at this, she was getting so used to queer things happening. While she was looking at the place where it had been, it suddenly appeared again.

By-the-bye, what became of the baby? said the Cat. Id nearly forgotten to ask.

It turned into a pig, Alice quietly said, just as if it had come back in a natural way.

I thought it would, said the Cat, and vanished again.

Alice waited a little, half expecting to see it again, but it did not appear, and after a minute or two she walked on in the direction in which the March Hare was said to live. Ive seen hatters before, she said to herself the March Hare will be much the most interesting, and perhaps as this is May it wont be raving mad-at least not so mad as it was in March. As she said this, she looked up, and there was the Cat again, sitting on a branch of a tree.

Did you say pig, or fig? said the Cat.

I said pig, replied Alice and I wish you wouldnt keep appearing and vanishing so suddenly: you make one quite giddy.

All right, said the Cat and this time it vanished quite slowly, beginning with the end of the tail, and ending with the grin, which remained some time after the rest of it had gone.

Well! Ive often seen a cat without a grin, thought Alice but a grin without a cat! Its the most curious thing I ever saw in my life!

She had not gone much farther before she came in sight of the house of the March Hare: she thought it must be the right house, because the chimneys were shaped like ears and the roof was thatched with fur. It was so large a house, that she did not like to go nearer till she had nibbled some more of the lefthand bit of mushroom, and raised herself to about two feet high: even then she walked up towards it rather timidly, saying to herself Suppose it should be raving mad after all! I almost wish Id gone to see the Hatter instead!






CHAPTER VII. A Mad Tea-Party
There was a table set out under a tree in front of the house, and the March Hare and the Hatter were having tea at it: a Dormouse was sitting between them, fast asleep, and the other two were using it as a cushion, resting their elbows on it, and talking over its head. Very uncomfortable for the Dormouse, thought Alice only, as its asleep, I suppose it doesnt mind.

The table was a large one, but the three were all crowded together at one corner of it: No room! No room! they cried out when they saw Alice coming. Theres plenty of room! said Alice indignantly, and she sat down in a large arm-chair at one end of the table.

Have some wine, the March Hare said in an encouraging tone.

Alice looked all round the table, but there was nothing on it but tea. I dont see any wine, she remarked.

There isnt any, said the March Hare.

Then it wasnt very civil of you to offer it, said Alice angrily.

It wasnt very civil of you to sit down without being invited, said the March Hare.

I didnt know it was your table, said Alice its laid for a great many more than three.

Your hair wants cutting, said the Hatter. He had been looking at Alice for some time with great curiosity, and this was his first speech.

You should learn not to make personal remarks, Alice said with some severity its very rude.

The Hatter opened his eyes very wide on hearing this but all he said was, Why is a raven like a writing-desk?

Come, we shall have some fun now! thought Alice. Im glad theyve begun asking riddles.-I believe I can guess that, she added aloud.

Do you mean that you think you can find out the answer to it? said the March Hare.

Exactly so, said Alice.

Then you should say what you mean, the March Hare went on.

I do, Alice hastily replied at least-at least I mean what I say-thats the same thing, you know.

Not the same thing a bit! said the Hatter. You might just as well say that "I see what I eat" is the same thing as "I eat what I see"!

You might just as well say, added the March Hare, that "I like what I get" is the same thing as "I get what I like"!

You might just as well say, added the Dormouse, who seemed to be talking in his sleep, that "I breathe when I sleep" is the same thing as "I sleep when I breathe"!

It is the same thing with you, said the Hatter, and here the conversation dropped, and the party sat silent for a minute, while Alice thought over all she could remember about ravens and writing-desks, which wasnt much.

The Hatter was the first to break the silence. What day of the month is it? he said, turning to Alice: he had taken his watch out of his pocket, and was looking at it uneasily, shaking it every now and then, and holding it to his ear.

Alice considered a little, and then said The fourth.

Two days wrong! sighed the Hatter. I told you butter wouldnt suit the works! he added looking angrily at the March Hare.

It was the best butter, the March Hare meekly replied.

Yes, but some crumbs must have got in as well, the Hatter grumbled: you shouldnt have put it in with the bread-knife.

The March Hare took the watch and looked at it gloomily: then he dipped it into his cup of tea, and looked at it again: but he could think of nothing better to say than his first remark, It was the best butter, you know.

Alice had been looking over his shoulder with some curiosity. What a funny watch! she remarked. It tells the day of the month, and doesnt tell what oclock it is!

Why should it? muttered the Hatter. Does your watch tell you what year it is?

Of course not, Alice replied very readily: but thats because it stays the same year for such a long time together.

Which is just the case with mine, said the Hatter.

Alice felt dreadfully puzzled. The Hatters remark seemed to have no sort of meaning in it, and yet it was certainly English. I dont quite understand you, she said, as politely as she could.

The Dormouse is asleep again, said the Hatter, and he poured a little hot tea upon its nose.

The Dormouse shook its head impatiently, and said, without opening its eyes, Of course, of course just what I was going to remark myself.

Have you guessed the riddle yet? the Hatter said, turning to Alice again.

No, I give it up, Alice replied: whats the answer?

I havent the slightest idea, said the Hatter.

Nor I, said the March Hare.

Alice sighed wearily. I think you might do something better with the time, she said, than waste it in asking riddles that have no answers.

If you knew Time as well as I do, said the Hatter, you wouldnt talk about wasting it. Its him.

I dont know what you mean, said Alice.

Of course you dont! the Hatter said, tossing his head contemptuously. I dare say you never even spoke to Time!

Perhaps not, Alice cautiously replied: but I know I have to beat time when I learn music.

Ah! that accounts for it, said the Hatter. He wont stand beating. Now, if you only kept on good terms with him, hed do almost anything you liked with the clock. For instance, suppose it were nine oclock in the morning, just time to begin lessons: youd only have to whisper a hint to Time, and round goes the clock in a twinkling! Half-past one, time for dinner!

I only wish it was, the March Hare said to itself in a whisper.

That would be grand, certainly, said Alice thoughtfully: but then-I shouldnt be hungry for it, you know.

Not at first, perhaps, said the Hatter: but you could keep it to half-past one as long as you liked.

Is that the way you manage? Alice asked.

The Hatter shook his head mournfully. Not I! he replied. We quarrelled last March-just before he went mad, you know- pointing with his tea spoon at the March Hare, -it was at the great concert given by the Queen of Hearts, and I had to sing

"Twinkle, twinkle, little bat!
How I wonder what youre at!"

You know the song, perhaps?

Ive heard something like it, said Alice.

It goes on, you know, the Hatter continued, in this way:-

"Up above the world you fly,
Like a tea-tray in the sky.
Twinkle, twinkle-"

Here the Dormouse shook itself, and began singing in its sleep  Twinkle, twinkle, twinkle, twinkle - and went on so long that they had to pinch it to make it stop.

Well, Id hardly finished the first verse, said the Hatter, when the Queen jumped up and bawled out, "Hes murdering the time! Off with his head!"

How dreadfully savage! exclaimed Alice.

And ever since that, the Hatter went on in a mournful tone, he wont do a thing I ask! Its always six oclock now.

A bright idea came into Alices head. Is that the reason so many tea-things are put out here? she asked.

Yes, thats it, said the Hatter with a sigh: its always tea-time, and weve no time to wash the things between whiles.

Then you keep moving round, I suppose? said Alice.

Exactly so, said the Hatter: as the things get used up.

But what happens when you come to the beginning again? Alice ventured to ask.

Suppose we change the subject, the March Hare interrupted, yawning. Im getting tired of this. I vote the young lady tells us a story.

Im afraid I dont know one, said Alice, rather alarmed at the proposal.

Then the Dormouse shall! they both cried. Wake up, Dormouse! And they pinched it on both sides at once.

The Dormouse slowly opened his eyes. I wasnt asleep, he said in a hoarse, feeble voice: I heard every word you fellows were saying.

Tell us a story! said the March Hare.

Yes, please do! pleaded Alice.

And be quick about it, added the Hatter, or youll be asleep again before its done.

Once upon a time there were three little sisters, the Dormouse began in a great hurry and their names were Elsie, Lacie, and Tillie and they lived at the bottom of a well-

What did they live on? said Alice, who always took a great interest in questions of eating and drinking.

They lived on treacle, said the Dormouse, after thinking a minute or two.

They couldnt have done that, you know, Alice gently remarked theyd have been ill.

So they were, said the Dormouse  very ill.

Alice tried to fancy to herself what such an extraordinary ways of living would be like, but it puzzled her too much, so she went on: But why did they live at the bottom of a well?

Take some more tea, the March Hare said to Alice, very earnestly.

Ive had nothing yet, Alice replied in an offended tone, so I cant take more.

You mean you cant take less, said the Hatter: its very easy to take more than nothing.

Nobody asked your opinion, said Alice.

Whos making personal remarks now? the Hatter asked triumphantly.

Alice did not quite know what to say to this: so she helped herself to some tea and bread-and-butter, and then turned to the Dormouse, and repeated her question. Why did they live at the bottom of a well?

The Dormouse again took a minute or two to think about it, and then said, It was a treacle-well.

Theres no such thing! Alice was beginning very angrily, but the Hatter and the March Hare went Sh! sh! and the Dormouse sulkily remarked, If you cant be civil, youd better finish the story for yourself.

No, please go on! Alice said very humbly I wont interrupt again. I dare say there may be one.

One, indeed! said the Dormouse indignantly. However, he consented to go on. And so these three little sisters-they were learning to draw, you know-

What did they draw? said Alice, quite forgetting her promise.

Treacle, said the Dormouse, without considering at all this time.

I want a clean cup, interrupted the Hatter: lets all move one place on.

He moved on as he spoke, and the Dormouse followed him: the March Hare moved into the Dormouses place, and Alice rather unwillingly took the place of the March Hare. The Hatter was the only one who got any advantage from the change: and Alice was a good deal worse off than before, as the March Hare had just upset the milk-jug into his plate.

Alice did not wish to offend the Dormouse again, so she began very cautiously: But I dont understand. Where did they draw the treacle from?

You can draw water out of a water-well, said the Hatter so I should think you could draw treacle out of a treacle-well-eh, stupid?

But they were in the well, Alice said to the Dormouse, not choosing to notice this last remark.

Of course they were, said the Dormouse -well in.

This answer so confused poor Alice, that she let the Dormouse go on for some time without interrupting it.

They were learning to draw, the Dormouse went on, yawning and rubbing its eyes, for it was getting very sleepy and they drew all manner of things-everything that begins with an M-

Why with an M? said Alice.

Why not? said the March Hare.

Alice was silent.

The Dormouse had closed its eyes by this time, and was going off into a doze but, on being pinched by the Hatter, it woke up again with a little shriek, and went on: -that begins with an M, such as mouse-traps, and the moon, and memory, and muchness-you know you say things are "much of a muchness"-did you ever see such a thing as a drawing of a muchness?

Really, now you ask me, said Alice, very much confused, I dont think-

Then you shouldnt talk, said the Hatter.

This piece of rudeness was more than Alice could bear: she got up in great disgust, and walked off the Dormouse fell asleep instantly, and neither of the others took the least notice of her going, though she looked back once or twice, half hoping that they would call after her: the last time she saw them, they were trying to put the Dormouse into the teapot.

At any rate Ill never go there again! said Alice as she picked her way through the wood. Its the stupidest tea-party I ever was at in all my life!

Just as she said this, she noticed that one of the trees had a door leading right into it. Thats very curious! she thought. But everythings curious today. I think I may as well go in at once. And in she went.

Once more she found herself in the long hall, and close to the little glass table. Now, Ill manage better this time, she said to herself, and began by taking the little golden key, and unlocking the door that led into the garden. Then she went to work nibbling at the mushroom she had kept a piece of it in her pocket till she was about a foot high: then she walked down the little passage: and then -she found herself at last in the beautiful garden, among the bright flower-beds and the cool fountains.






CHAPTER VIII. The Queens Croquet-Ground
A large rose-tree stood near the entrance of the garden: the roses growing on it were white, but there were three gardeners at it, busily painting them red. Alice thought this a very curious thing, and she went nearer to watch them, and just as she came up to them she heard one of them say, Look out now, Five! Dont go splashing paint over me like that!

I couldnt help it, said Five, in a sulky tone Seven jogged my elbow.

On which Seven looked up and said, Thats right, Five! Always lay the blame on others!

 Youd better not talk! said Five. I heard the Queen say only yesterday you deserved to be beheaded!

What for? said the one who had spoken first.

Thats none of your business, Two! said Seven.

Yes, it is his business! said Five, and Ill tell him-it was for bringing the cook tulip-roots instead of onions.

Seven flung down his brush, and had just begun Well, of all the unjust things- when his eye chanced to fall upon Alice, as she stood watching them, and he checked himself suddenly: the others looked round also, and all of them bowed low.

Would you tell me, said Alice, a little timidly, why you are painting those roses?

Five and Seven said nothing, but looked at Two. Two began in a low voice, Why the fact is, you see, Miss, this here ought to have been a red rose-tree, and we put a white one in by mistake and if the Queen was to find it out, we should all have our heads cut off, you know. So you see, Miss, were doing our best, afore she comes, to- At this moment Five, who had been anxiously looking across the garden, called out The Queen! The Queen! and the three gardeners instantly threw themselves flat upon their faces. There was a sound of many footsteps, and Alice looked round, eager to see the Queen.

First came ten soldiers carrying clubs these were all shaped like the three gardeners, oblong and flat, with their hands and feet at the corners: next the ten courtiers these were ornamented all over with diamonds, and walked two and two, as the soldiers did. After these came the royal children there were ten of them, and the little dears came jumping merrily along hand in hand, in couples: they were all ornamented with hearts. Next came the guests, mostly Kings and Queens, and among them Alice recognised the White Rabbit: it was talking in a hurried nervous manner, smiling at everything that was said, and went by without noticing her. Then followed the Knave of Hearts, carrying the Kings crown on a crimson velvet cushion and, last of all this grand procession, came THE KING AND QUEEN OF HEARTS.

Alice was rather doubtful whether she ought not to lie down on her face like the three gardeners, but she could not remember ever having heard of such a rule at processions and besides, what would be the use of a procession, thought she, if people had all to lie down upon their faces, so that they couldnt see it? So she stood still where she was, and waited.

When the procession came opposite to Alice, they all stopped and looked at her, and the Queen said severely Who is this? She said it to the Knave of Hearts, who only bowed and smiled in reply.

Idiot! said the Queen, tossing her head impatiently and, turning to Alice, she went on, Whats your name, child?

My name is Alice, so please your Majesty, said Alice very politely but she added, to herself, Why, theyre only a pack of cards, after all. I neednt be afraid of them!

And who are these? said the Queen, pointing to the three gardeners who were lying round the rosetree for, you see, as they were lying on their faces, and the pattern on their backs was the same as the rest of the pack, she could not tell whether they were gardeners, or soldiers, or courtiers, or three of her own children.

How should I know? said Alice, surprised at her own courage. Its no business of mine.

The Queen turned crimson with fury, and, after glaring at her for a moment like a wild beast, screamed Off with her head! Off-

Nonsense! said Alice, very loudly and decidedly, and the Queen was silent.

The King laid his hand upon her arm, and timidly said Consider, my dear: she is only a child!

The Queen turned angrily away from him, and said to the Knave Turn them over!

The Knave did so, very carefully, with one foot.

Get up! said the Queen, in a shrill, loud voice, and the three gardeners instantly jumped up, and began bowing to the King, the Queen, the royal children, and everybody else.

Leave off that! screamed the Queen. You make me giddy. And then, turning to the rose-tree, she went on, What have you been doing here?

May it please your Majesty, said Two, in a very humble tone, going down on one knee as he spoke, we were trying-

 I see! said the Queen, who had meanwhile been examining the roses. Off with their heads! and the procession moved on, three of the soldiers remaining behind to execute the unfortunate gardeners, who ran to Alice for protection.

You shant be beheaded! said Alice, and she put them into a large flower-pot that stood near. The three soldiers wandered about for a minute or two, looking for them, and then quietly marched off after the others.

Are their heads off? shouted the Queen.

Their heads are gone, if it please your Majesty! the soldiers shouted in reply.

Thats right! shouted the Queen. Can you play croquet?

The soldiers were silent, and looked at Alice, as the question was evidently meant for her.

Yes! shouted Alice.

Come on, then! roared the Queen, and Alice joined the procession, wondering very much what would happen next.

Its-its a very fine day! said a timid voice at her side. She was walking by the White Rabbit, who was peeping anxiously into her face.

Very, said Alice: -wheres the Duchess?

Hush! Hush! said the Rabbit in a low, hurried tone. He looked anxiously over his shoulder as he spoke, and then raised himself upon tiptoe, put his mouth close to her ear, and whispered Shes under sentence of execution.

What for? said Alice.

Did you say "What a pity!"? the Rabbit asked.

No, I didnt, said Alice: I dont think its at all a pity. I said "What for?"

She boxed the Queens ears- the Rabbit began. Alice gave a little scream of laughter. Oh, hush! the Rabbit whispered in a frightened tone. The Queen will hear you! You see, she came rather late, and the Queen said-

Get to your places! shouted the Queen in a voice of thunder, and people began running about in all directions, tumbling up against each other however, they got settled down in a minute or two, and the game began. Alice thought she had never seen such a curious croquet-ground in her life it was all ridges and furrows the balls were live hedgehogs, the mallets live flamingoes, and the soldiers had to double themselves up and to stand on their hands and feet, to make the arches.

The chief difficulty Alice found at first was in managing her flamingo: she succeeded in getting its body tucked away, comfortably enough, under her arm, with its legs hanging down, but generally, just as she had got its neck nicely straightened out, and was going to give the hedgehog a blow with its head, it would twist itself round and look up in her face, with such a puzzled expression that she could not help bursting out laughing: and when she had got its head down, and was going to begin again, it was very provoking to find that the hedgehog had unrolled itself, and was in the act of crawling away: besides all this, there was generally a ridge or furrow in the way wherever she wanted to send the hedgehog to, and, as the doubled-up soldiers were always getting up and walking off to other parts of the ground, Alice soon came to the conclusion that it was a very difficult game indeed.

The players all played at once without waiting for turns, quarrelling all the while, and fighting for the hedgehogs and in a very short time the Queen was in a furious passion, and went stamping about, and shouting Off with his head! or Off with her head! about once in a minute.

Alice began to feel very uneasy: to be sure, she had not as yet had any dispute with the Queen, but she knew that it might happen any minute, and then, thought she, what would become of me? Theyre dreadfully fond of beheading people here the great wonder is, that theres any one left alive!

She was looking about for some way of escape, and wondering whether she could get away without being seen, when she noticed a curious appearance in the air: it puzzled her very much at first, but, after watching it a minute or two, she made it out to be a grin, and she said to herself Its the Cheshire Cat: now I shall have somebody to talk to.

How are you getting on? said the Cat, as soon as there was mouth enough for it to speak with.

Alice waited till the eyes appeared, and then nodded. Its no use speaking to it, she thought, till its ears have come, or at least one of them. In another minute the whole head appeared, and then Alice put down her flamingo, and began an account of the game, feeling very glad she had someone to listen to her. The Cat seemed to think that there was enough of it now in sight, and no more of it appeared.

I dont think they play at all fairly, Alice began, in rather a complaining tone, and they all quarrel so dreadfully one cant hear oneself speak-and they dont seem to have any rules in particular at least, if there are, nobody attends to them-and youve no idea how confusing it is all the things being alive for instance, theres the arch Ive got to go through next walking about at the other end of the ground-and I should have croqueted the Queens hedgehog just now, only it ran away when it saw mine coming!

How do you like the Queen? said the Cat in a low voice.

Not at all, said Alice: shes so extremely- Just then she noticed that the Queen was close behind her, listening: so she went on, -likely to win, that its hardly worth while finishing the game.

The Queen smiled and passed on.

Who are you talking to? said the King, going up to Alice, and looking at the Cats head with great curiosity.

Its a friend of mine-a Cheshire Cat, said Alice: allow me to introduce it.

I dont like the look of it at all, said the King: however, it may kiss my hand if it likes.

Id rather not, the Cat remarked.

Dont be impertinent, said the King, and dont look at me like that! He got behind Alice as he spoke.

A cat may look at a king, said Alice. Ive read that in some book, but I dont remember where.

Well, it must be removed, said the King very decidedly, and he called the Queen, who was passing at the moment, My dear! I wish you would have this cat removed!

The Queen had only one way of settling all difficulties, great or small. Off with his head! she said, without even looking round.

Ill fetch the executioner myself, said the King eagerly, and he hurried off.

Alice thought she might as well go back, and see how the game was going on, as she heard the Queens voice in the distance, screaming with passion. She had already heard her sentence three of the players to be executed for having missed their turns, and she did not like the look of things at all, as the game was in such confusion that she never knew whether it was her turn or not. So she went in search of her hedgehog.

The hedgehog was engaged in a fight with another hedgehog, which seemed to Alice an excellent opportunity for croqueting one of them with the other: the only difficulty was, that her flamingo was gone across to the other side of the garden, where Alice could see it trying in a helpless sort of way to fly up into a tree.

By the time she had caught the flamingo and brought it back, the fight was over, and both the hedgehogs were out of sight: but it doesnt matter much, thought Alice, as all the arches are gone from this side of the ground. So she tucked it away under her arm, that it might not escape again, and went back for a little more conversation with her friend.

When she got back to the Cheshire Cat, she was surprised to find quite a large crowd collected round it: there was a dispute going on between the executioner, the King, and the Queen, who were all talking at once, while all the rest were quite silent, and looked very uncomfortable.

The moment Alice appeared, she was appealed to by all three to settle the question, and they repeated their arguments to her, though, as they all spoke at once, she found it very hard indeed to make out exactly what they said.

The executioners argument was, that you couldnt cut off a head unless there was a body to cut it off from: that he had never had to do such a thing before, and he wasnt going to begin at his time of life.

The Kings argument was, that anything that had a head could be beheaded, and that you werent to talk nonsense.

The Queens argument was, that if something wasnt done about it in less than no time shed have everybody executed, all round. It was this last remark that had made the whole party look so grave and anxious.

Alice could think of nothing else to say but It belongs to the Duchess: youd better ask her about it.

Shes in prison, the Queen said to the executioner: fetch her here. And the executioner went off like an arrow.

The Cats head began fading away the moment he was gone, and, by the time he had come back with the Duchess, it had entirely disappeared so the King and the executioner ran wildly up and down looking for it, while the rest of the party went back to the game.
Curiouser and curiouser! cried Alice she was so much surprised, that for the moment she quite forgot how to speak good English now Im opening out like the largest telescope that ever was! Good-bye, feet! for when she looked down at her feet, they seemed to be almost out of sight, they were getting so far off. Oh, my poor little feet, I wonder who will put on your shoes and stockings for you now, dears? Im sure I shant be able! I shall be a great deal too far off to trouble myself about you: you must manage the best way you can-but I must be kind to them, thought Alice, or perhaps they wont walk the way I want to go! Let me see: Ill give them a new pair of boots every Christmas.
And she went on planning to herself how she would manage it. They must go by the carrier, she thought and how funny itll seem, sending presents to ones own feet! And how odd the directions will look!
Alices Right Foot, Esq.
Hearthrug,
near The Fender,
with Alices love.
Oh dear, what nonsense Im talking!
Just then her head struck against the roof of the hall: in fact she was now more than nine feet high, and she at once took up the little golden key and hurried off to the garden door.
Poor Alice! It was as much as she could do, lying down on one side, to look through into the garden with one eye but to get through was more hopeless than ever: she sat down and began to cry again.
You ought to be ashamed of yourself, said Alice, a great girl like you, she might well say this, to go on crying in this way! Stop this moment, I tell you! But she went on all the same, shedding gallons of tears, until there was a large pool all round her, about four inches deep and reaching half down the hall.
After a time she heard a little pattering of feet in the distance, and she hastily dried her eyes to see what was coming. It was the White Rabbit returning, splendidly dressed, with a pair of white kid gloves in one hand and a large fan in the other: he came trotting along in a great hurry, muttering to himself as he came, Oh! the Duchess, the Duchess! Oh! wont she be savage if Ive kept her waiting! Alice felt so desperate that she was ready to ask help of any one so, when the Rabbit came near her, she began, in a low, timid voice, If you please, sir- The Rabbit started violently, dropped the white kid gloves and the fan, and skurried away into the darkness as hard as he could go.
Alice took up the fan and gloves, and, as the hall was very hot, she kept fanning herself all the time she went on talking: Dear, dear! How queer everything is to-day! And yesterday things went on just as usual. I wonder if Ive been changed in the night? Let me think: was I the same when I got up this morning? I almost think I can remember feeling a little different. But if Im not the same, the next question is, Who in the world am I? Ah, thats the great puzzle! And she began thinking over all the children she knew that were of the same age as herself, to see if she could have been changed for any of them.
Im sure Im not Ada, she said, for her hair goes in such long ringlets, and mine doesnt go in ringlets at all and Im sure I cant be Mabel, for I know all sorts of things, and she, oh! she knows such a very little! Besides, shes she, and Im I, and-oh dear, how puzzling it all is! Ill try if I know all the things I used to know. Let me see: four times five is twelve, and four times six is thirteen, and four times seven is-oh dear! I shall never get to twenty at that rate! However, the Multiplication Table doesnt signify: lets try Geography. London is the capital of Paris, and Paris is the capital of Rome, and Rome-no, thats all wrong, Im certain! I must have been changed for Mabel! Ill try and say " How doth the little -" and she crossed her hands on her lap as if she were saying lessons, and began to repeat it, but her voice sounded hoarse and strange, and the words did not come the same as they used to do:-
How doth the little crocodile
Improve his shining tail,
And pour the waters of the Nile
On every golden scale!
How cheerfully he seems to grin,
How neatly spread his claws,
And welcome little fishes in
With gently smiling jaws!
Im sure those are not the right words, said poor Alice, and her eyes filled with tears again as she went on, I must be Mabel after all, and I shall have to go and live in that poky little house, and have next to no toys to play with, and oh! ever so many lessons to learn! No, Ive made up my mind about it if Im Mabel, Ill stay down here! Itll be no use their putting their heads down and saying "Come up again, dear!" I shall only look up and say "Who am I then? Tell me that first, and then, if I like being that person, Ill come up: if not, Ill stay down here till Im somebody else"-but, oh dear! cried Alice, with a sudden burst of tears, I do wish they would put their heads down! I am so very tired of being all alone here!
As she said this she looked down at her hands, and was surprised to see that she had put on one of the Rabbits little white kid gloves while she was talking. How can I have done that? she thought. I must be growing small again. She got up and went to the table to measure herself by it, and found that, as nearly as she could guess, she was now about two feet high, and was going on shrinking rapidly: she soon found out that the cause of this was the fan she was holding, and she dropped it hastily, just in time to avoid shrinking away altogether.
That was a narrow escape! said Alice, a good deal frightened at the sudden change, but very glad to find herself still in existence and now for the garden! and she ran with all speed back to the little door: but, alas! the little door was shut again, and the little golden key was lying on the glass table as before, and things are worse than ever, thought the poor child, for I never was so small as this before, never! And I declare its too bad, that it is!
As she said these words her foot slipped, and in another moment, splash! she was up to her chin in salt water. Her first idea was that she had somehow fallen into the sea, and in that case I can go back by railway, she said to herself. Alice had been to the seaside once in her life, and had come to the general conclusion, that wherever you go to on the English coast you find a number of bathing machines in the sea, some children digging in the sand with wooden spades, then a row of lodging houses, and behind them a railway station. However, she soon made out that she was in the pool of tears which she had wept when she was nine feet high.
I wish I hadnt cried so much! said Alice, as she swam about, trying to find her way out. I shall be punished for it now, I suppose, by being drowned in my own tears! That will be a queer thing, to be sure! However, everything is queer to-day.
Just then she heard something splashing about in the pool a little way off, and she swam nearer to make out what it was: at first she thought it must be a walrus or hippopotamus, but then she remembered how small she was now, and she soon made out that it was only a mouse that had slipped in like herself.
Would it be of any use, now, thought Alice, to speak to this mouse? Everything is so out-of-the-way down here, that I should think very likely it can talk: at any rate, theres no harm in trying. So she began: O Mouse, do you know the way out of this pool? I am very tired of swimming about here, O Mouse! Alice thought this must be the right way of speaking to a mouse: she had never done such a thing before, but she remembered having seen in her brothers Latin Grammar, A mouse-of a mouse-to a mouse-a mouse-O mouse! The Mouse looked at her rather inquisitively, and seemed to her to wink with one of its little eyes, but it said nothing.
Perhaps it doesnt understand English, thought Alice I daresay its a French mouse, come over with William the Conqueror. For, with all her knowledge of history, Alice had no very clear notion how long ago anything had happened. So she began again: Ou est ma chatte? which was the first sentence in her French lesson-book. The Mouse gave a sudden leap out of the water, and seemed to quiver all over with fright. Oh, I beg your pardon! cried Alice hastily, afraid that she had hurt the poor animals feelings. I quite forgot you didnt like cats.
Not like cats! cried the Mouse, in a shrill, passionate voice. Would you like cats if you were me?
Well, perhaps not, said Alice in a soothing tone: dont be angry about it. And yet I wish I could show you our cat Dinah: I think youd take a fancy to cats if you could only see her. She is such a dear quiet thing, Alice went on, half to herself, as she swam lazily about in the pool, and she sits purring so nicely by the fire, licking her paws and washing her face-and she is such a nice soft thing to nurse-and shes such a capital one for catching mice-oh, I beg your pardon! cried Alice again, for this time the Mouse was bristling all over, and she felt certain it must be really offended. We wont talk about her any more if youd rather not.
We indeed! cried the Mouse, who was trembling down to the end of his tail. As if I would talk on such a subject! Our family always hated cats: nasty, low, vulgar things! Dont let me hear the name again!
I wont indeed! said Alice, in a great hurry to change the subject of conversation. Are you-are you fond-of-of dogs? The Mouse did not answer, so Alice went on eagerly: There is such a nice little dog near our house I should like to show you! A little bright-eyed terrier, you know, with oh, such long curly brown hair! And itll fetch things when you throw them, and itll sit up and beg for its dinner, and all sorts of things-I cant remember half of them-and it belongs to a farmer, you know, and he says its so useful, its worth a hundred pounds! He says it kills all the rats and-oh dear! cried Alice in a sorrowful tone, Im afraid Ive offended it again! For the Mouse was swimming away from her as hard as it could go, and making quite a commotion in the pool as it went.
So she called softly after it, Mouse dear! Do come back again, and we wont talk about cats or dogs either, if you dont like them! When the Mouse heard this, it turned round and swam slowly back to her: its face was quite pale with passion, Alice thought, and it said in a low trembling voice, Let us get to the shore, and then Ill tell you my history, and youll understand why it is I hate cats and dogs.
It was high time to go, for the pool was getting quite crowded with the birds and animals that had fallen into it: there were a Duck and a Dodo, a Lory and an Eaglet, and several other curious creatures. Alice led the way, and the whole party swam to the shore.
CHAPTER III. A Caucus-Race and a Long Tale
They were indeed a queer-looking party that assembled on the bank-the birds with draggled feathers, the animals with their fur clinging close to them, and all dripping wet, cross, and uncomfortable.
The first question of course was, how to get dry again: they had a consultation about this, and after a few minutes it seemed quite natural to Alice to find herself talking familiarly with them, as if she had known them all her life. Indeed, she had quite a long argument with the Lory, who at last turned sulky, and would only say, I am older than you, and must know better and this Alice would not allow without knowing how old it was, and, as the Lory positively refused to tell its age, there was no more to be said.
At last the Mouse, who seemed to be a person of authority among them, called out, Sit down, all of you, and listen to me! Ill soon make you dry enough! They all sat down at once, in a large ring, with the Mouse in the middle. Alice kept her eyes anxiously fixed on it, for she felt sure she would catch a bad cold if she did not get dry very soon.
Ahem! said the Mouse with an important air, are you all ready? This is the driest thing I know. Silence all round, if you please! "William the Conqueror, whose cause was favoured by the pope, was soon submitted to by the English, who wanted leaders, and had been of late much accustomed to usurpation and conquest. Edwin and Morcar, the earls of Mercia and Northumbria-"
Ugh! said the Lory, with a shiver.
I beg your pardon! said the Mouse, frowning, but very politely: Did you speak?
Not I! said the Lory hastily.